---
path: "/public"
date: "26 February 2019"
title: "Explore TCGA, GDC, and other public cancer genomics resources"
author: "Mary Goldman"
---

[[contentHero]]
| Discover new trends and validate your findings with 1500+ datasets and 50+ cancer types.

We provide interactive online visualization of seminal cancer genomics datasets, including data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC), Genomic Data Commons (GDC), and UCSC RNA-seq recompute compendium. Xena supports virtually any functional genomics data, including SNVs, INDELs, large structural variants, copy number variation, gene-, transcript-, exon-, miRNA-, LncRNA-, protein, expressions, DNA methylation, ATAC-seq signals, phenotypic annotations, and higher-level derived genomic parameters.


| Public Xena Hubs | Samples | Data Types |
|-----------------------|:-------:|:-----------|
| TCGA                  | 12,470 | copy number, gene-, exon-, miRNA-, and protein-expression, somatic mutation, DNA methylation, survival, and clinical data |
| Pan-Cancer Atlas      | 12,591 | copy number, gene-, miRNA-, and protein-expression, somatic mutation, DNA methylation, molecular subtypes, multiple curated survival endpoints |
| ICGC                  | 17,697 | copy number, gene expression, somatic mutation |
| UCSC RNA-seq compendium | 19,131 | TCGA, TARGET, and GTEx gene- and transcript-expression |
| GDC                 | 20,157 | TCGA and TARGET copy number, somatic mutations, gene- and miRNA-expression, DNA methylation, overall survival, and clinical data |
| TCGA ATAC-seq         | 404    | ATAC-seq peak signal |
| Collected from the literature | * | various, study-dependent |

Table: Summary of data hosted on Public Xena Hubs as of October 26, 2018. 

##TCGA
TCGA is our most used data resource. We host serveral versions of the TCGA data:
- [TCGA Pan-Cancer Atlas](https://pancanatlas.xenahubs.net) As its concluding project, The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Research Network completes the most comprehensive cross-cancer analysis to date: The Pan-Cancer Atlas. Xena displays the curated genomics and clinical data generated by the PanCan Atlas consortium working groups.

- [TCGA data from Genomic Data Commons](https://gdc.xenahubs.net) TCGA data uniformaly re-analyzed at GDC using the latest Human Genome Assembly hg38. We download all open-access tier data from GDC, compile individual files into collections of datasets, one for each tumor cohort as well as a Pancan cohort. Xena displays the compiled datasets.

- [TCGA data in the UCSC RNA-seq Recompute Compendium](https://toil.xenahubs.net) The data has been co-analyzed with GTEx samples using the UCSC bioinformatic pipeline (TOIL RNA-seq) and can be used to compare tumor vs normal gene and transcript expression from the matching tissue of origin. Xena hosts gene and transcript expression results of the UCSC RNA-seq recompute compendium.

- [Legacy TCGA data](https://tcga.xenahubs.net) Data generated by TCGA research network before the Pan-Cancer Atlas. These data currently available at GDC Legacy archive. 

##More studies
- [UCSC RNA-seq recompute compendium](https://toil.xenahubs.net)

- [ICGC](https://icgc.xenahubs.net): includes TCGA data (U.S.A.) plus data contributed by groups from other countries in the International Cancer Genome Consortium. The resource has non-coding somatic mutation data from non-TCGA samples.

- [MET500](https://xenabrowser.net/datapages/?cohort=MET500%20(expression%20centric)): gene expression data from the metastatic cancer cohort published by [Robinson et al 2017 Integrative clinical genomics of metastatic cancer.](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28783718)

- [CCLE](https://xenabrowser.net/datapages/?cohort=Cancer%20Cell%20Line%20Encyclopedia%20(CCLE)): Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia. Detailed genetic and pharmacologic characterization of a large panel (~1100) of human cancer cell lines.

##Interested in a specific type of expression?
Don't see a study or dataset that you are interested in? [Set up a hub](./private), for yourself or your group, with the data you need.

